# Goal

This readme goal is to provide high level explanation of each jmeter scenarios with its description and own parameters, so the user can understand the purpose of each scenario and how to run it.

# Jmeter version
recommended to use the same version of JMeter to avoid any compatibility issues.
- all scenarios were created under JMeter v5.6.3.
- all plugins were installed using the JMeter Plugins Manager.
- JDK version 17 was used to run JMeter.

# 01_create_users.jmx

### Scenario goal and description
Scenario is to create users in YouTrack system using JMeter. it iterates over the list of user names in the `names.csv` file and creates a new user for each name in the list. for each created user, it also creates a new permanent token for the user and stores it in the `users_and_tokens.csv` variable. this scenario is used as a prerequisite for other scenarios that require multiple users to be created in the system before running the tests. These users and their tokens can be used in other scenarios to simulate different load scenarios on the YouTrack system and observe how it handles the load generated by multiple users performing actions in the system.

### Mandatory prerequisite: 

`User Defined Variables` - contains mandatory variables to be set befor scenario start.
- `AUTH_TOKEN` - permanent token generated manually for the admin user, that would be used for creating other users.
- `V_SCHEME` - variable for the scheme to be used in the scenario. set by default as `http` but can be changed to `https` if needed.
- `V_HOST` - variable for the target host to be used in the scenario. sset DNS name or IP address of the target host. it would be used to construct the URL for the requests in the scenario.
- `V_PORT` - variable for the port to be used in the scenario. set by default as `8080` for HTTP and `443` for HTTPS, but can be changed if needed.

Values V_SCHEME, V_HOST and V_PORT are used to construct the URL for the requests in the scenario via `HTTP Request Defaults`, so woudl be used for all requests in the scenario by default and all HTTP reusest not need to define this values. it makes it easier to change the target host and port for the scenario without having to change each request individually.

`AUTH_TOKEN` is used in the `HTTP Header Manager` to set the `Authorization` header for the requests in the scenario, so it would be used for all requests in the scenario by default and all HTTP requests not need to define this value. 

### Important user values:

`Loop Controller Create Users` -> `CSV Data Set Config` - contains list of user names used for creating users. it stores in `names.csv` file located in the `jmeter_scenarios` folder.

### Notes:
Scenario workflow is as follows:
1. `Loop Controller Create Users` - loop controller that iterates over the list of user names in the `names.csv` file and creates a new user for each name in the list.
2. `HTTP GET Get users` - request list of all users and prepare this list of all user for next loop iteration.
3. `Loop_Through_Users` -> `HTTP POST Create token` - for each user in the list of all users, create a new permanent token for the user and store it in the `users_and_tokens.csv` variable.



# 02_create_issues.jmx

### scenario goal and description
Main goal of this scenario is crete over 100k issues in the Youtrack. It creates on behalf users were created on `01_create_users.jmx` scenario. it important to configure ring number of threads and count loop to create enough issues for future scenarios.

### mandatory prerequisite: 
`User Defined Variables` - contains mandatory variables to be set before scenario start.
- `AUTH_TOKEN` - permanent token generated manually for the admin user, that would be used for creating other users. For this scenario this value more used as debug value in case if `users_and_tokens.csv` are not available. 
- `V_SCHEME` - variable for the scheme to be used in the scenario. set by default as `http` but can be changed to `https` if needed.
- `V_HOST` - variable for the target host to be used in the scenario. sset DNS name or IP address of the target host. it would be used to construct the URL for the requests in the scenario.
- `V_PORT` - variable for the port to be used in the scenario. set by default as `8080` for HTTP and `443` for HTTPS, but can be changed if needed.

`CSV Data Set Config user data` contain list of logins, users and its tokens generated by the `01_create_users.jmx` scenario, so it is mandatory to run `01_create_users.jmx` scenario before running this scenario to have this data available for creating issues in the system. this data is used in the `HTTP Header Manager` to set the `Authorization` header for the requests in the scenario, so it would be used for all requests in the scenario by default and all HTTP requests not need to define this value. This this config file would take users and its tokens to simulate that issues were generated by different users. 


### important user values:
`Extended CSV Data Set Config - TICKET DATA` - contains `movies.csv` - contains list of movies used for creating issues as summary and short description. it was donwloaded from [Kaggle IMDB+ dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/trentpark/imdb-data) and contains 85k+ movies with its details.


### notes:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> during the execution of this scenario it appears Java out of memory error, so it is recommended to run youtrack with extended configuration check `Scripts/readme.md` for more details about YouTrack configuration.




# 03_scenario_default.jmx

### scenario goal and description


### mandatory prerequisite: 
`Test plan`-> `User Defined Variables` - contains mandatory variables to be set before scenario start.
- `AUTH_TOKEN` - permanent token generated manually for the admin user, that would be used for creating other users. For this scenario this value more used as debug value in case if `users_and_tokens.csv` are not available. 
- `V_SCHEME` - variable for the scheme to be used in the scenario. set by default as `http` but can be changed to `https` if needed.
- `V_HOST` - variable for the target host to be used in the scenario. sset DNS name or IP address of the target host. it would be used to construct the URL for the requests in the scenario.
- `V_PORT` - variable for the port to be used in the scenario. set by default as `8080` for HTTP and `443` for HTTPS, but can be changed if needed.
- `RND_ISSUE` - this variable used to generate random issue , this used mainly for debug purposes. because other JSR223 sampler generates is based on the random 50 pools of issues (based on the requriements of the task)
- `SEARCH_WORD` - variable used for search operations in the scenario. this one also used for debug purposed. for each itaration it shoud take random word from the list of words in the `movies.csv` file, but for debug purposes it is set to `SEARCH_WORD`.
- `TRANSTACTIONS_PER_USER` - variable used to define the number of actions per user during the scenario execution. it is used to calculate the delay between user actions in milliseconds, so it is used to simulate user think time between actions. it is set by default to 40 actions per user during the hour (according to initial task requirements). During scenario executions it was also set to 80, 120 and 200 actions per user during the hour to simulate higher load.
`RESULT_PATH` - default path to the log written by `Simple Data Writer` listener.



### important user values:
`Thread Group - search and open` -> `User Defined Variables`
- `TARGET_DELAY` - define default delay beween user actions in milliseconds, it is used to simulate user think time between actions. It set by variable `TRANSTACTIONS_PER_USER` from  `Test plan`-> `User Defined Variables`
- `RESULT_LOG` - path to the log written by `Simple Data Writer` listener, it is used to store the results of the scenario execution in .jtl format for further analysis and visualization. It uses `RESULT_PATH` as part of its path.
- `RESULT_LOG_TELEMETRY` - path to the log written by `jp@gc - PerfMon Metrics Collector` listener (if configured), it is used to store the telemetry data from remote server. It uses `RESULT_PATH` as part of its path.

`Extended CSV Data Set Config - TICKET DATA` - contains `movies.csv` - contains list of movies used for creating issues as summary and short description. it was donwloaded from [Kaggle IMDB+ dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/trentpark/imdb-data) and contains 85k+ movies with its details. This csv file would be used for search tickets by names. 

### notes:

this scenario is basic on for the task its workflow is as follows:
1. User SEARCH or Create issue by its name (randomly selected from the `movies.csv` file). Jmeter return Id of the issue and store it in the variable for further usage in the scenario.
2. User think
3. User open issue by its Id and get its details. Jmeter download all resources and java scripts and redownload all possible resources for the issue pages. For the first time it more resources. than this user it would be use cache and not download all the resources that not changed again. this is why first initial of the scenario is more time consuming than the next iterations of the scenario.
4. User think (longer) depends of number of actions per user during the hour (defined by `TRANSTACTIONS_PER_USER` variable in the `Test plan`-> `User Defined Variables`)
5. User make changes in the issue (randomly selected) on of the next actions [`CHANGE issue type`, `CHANGE issue status`,` CHANGE issue priority`, `ADD comment to the issue`]
6. Repeat.




# 04_scenario_step.jmx

Absolutely same values as (#03_scenario_default.jmx) scenario, but the main difference is that this scenario is designed to simulate a step increasing load on the system by increasing the number of users without any its thinking time, so it can generate more RPS that regular scenario. All `Gaussian Random Timer` are disablend in this scenario.





#### Generating JMeter HTML Reports

This generated reports are more as supportive visualization for the analysis of the performance testing results, they are not the main source of information for the analysis, but they can provide additional insights into the system's performance under different load scenarios.

## example command:
```cmd
"x:\JMETER_PATH\bin\jmeter.bat" -g "x:\PATH_TO_LOG\log.jtl" -o "x:\PATH_TO_RESULT_FOLDER\report"
```

## commands to generate JMeter HTML reports for each test results:
```cmd
"C:\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\bin\jmeter.bat" -g "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_results\scenario_40_default.jtl" -o "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_reports\jmeter_html_reports\scenario_40_default_report"
```

```cmd
"C:\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\bin\jmeter.bat" -g "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_results\scenario_80.jtl" -o "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_reports\jmeter_html_reports\scenario_80_report"
```

```cmd
"C:\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\bin\jmeter.bat" -g "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_results\scenario_120.jtl" -o "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_reports\jmeter_html_reports\scenario_120_report"
```

```cmd
"C:\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\bin\jmeter.bat" -g "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_results\scenario_200.jtl" -o "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_reports\jmeter_html_reports\scenario_200_report"
```


```cmd
"C:\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\apache-jmeter-5.6.3\bin\jmeter.bat" -g "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_results\scenario_step.jtl" -o "H:\GitHub\MK_JB_YT_task\jmeter_reports\jmeter_html_reports\scenario_step_report"
```